---
layout: post
title:  "Linux for Pentesters"
date:   2023-08-07 10:51:47 +0530
image: /images/image-1.png
categories: [Pentesting, Linux]
---
Network penetration testing, often referred to as network pentesting or ethical hacking, is a critical discipline within cybersecurity that focuses on assessing the security of computer networks. 
The primary goal of network pentesting is to identify weaknesses, vulnerabilities, and potential entry points that malicious actors could exploit to compromise a network's integrity, availability, or confidentiality.


## Networking Essentials

- OSI Model: Understanding the layered architecture helps in pinpointing vulnerabilities at various levels.
- Protocols: In-depth knowledge of TCP/IP and other network protocols is essential for accurate analysis.
- Subnetting and IP Addressing: Subnetting knowledge aids in identifying network segments and potential entry points.

## Ethical Guidelines

- Permission: Always obtain written consent from the organization before initiating any pentesting activities.
- Scope: Define the scope of testing, outlining the assets and areas that can be assessed.
- Reporting: Document all findings accurately and promptly, assisting the organization in addressing vulnerabilities.

<div class="alert alert-dismissible alert-success">
  <button type="button" class="close" data-dismiss="alert">&times;</button>
  <h4>Warning!</h4>
  <p>Best check yo self, you're not looking too good. Nulla vitae elit libero, a pharetra augue. Praesent commodo cursus magna, <a href="#" class="alert-link">vel scelerisque nisl consectetur et</a>.</p>
</div>

[jekyll-docs]: http://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
